Technology. It is the collection of techniques, skills, methods, and processes that can be used in the production of goods or services or even in the accomplishment of objectives, such as scientific investigation. Technology can also be the knowledge of techniques, processes, or it can be embedded into machines to allow for simple or complex operations without detailed knowledge of their workings.
As the technology growing, comes the invention of technological devices such as smartphones, smart televisions, smart watches, computers, laptop and the like. Owning this great inventions comes with responsibilities. It has to be monitored or let’s say well-cared. Here comes the troubleshooting part. Every time the devices malfunction, we can’t just easily call an expert to troubleshoot our devices. Not everyone is knowledgeable in dealing with these things. So if I am to talk, every living being must have a knowledge in dealing the problems of their devices, detailed knowledge or even basic. It is helpful for us. It can even save us time to call for an expert and also the money to give for them.
Now comes the troubleshooting. Every student of Bohol Island State University – Main Campus who is taking up Bachelor of Science in Computer Engineering is required to complete all the subjects as what the old curriculum has. These subjects covers both hardware and software parts of the computer and one of these subjects is named troubleshooting.
What is troubleshooting? According to Margaret Rouse in whatis.techtarget.com, troubleshooting is a systematic approach to problem solving that is often used to find and correct issues with complex machines, electronics, computers and software systems. The first step in troubleshooting is gathering information on the issue, such as an undesired behavior or a lack of expected functionality. Other important information includes related symptoms and special circumstances that may be required to reproduce the issue. Once the issue and how to reproduce it are understood, the next step might be to eliminate unnecessary components in the system and verify that the issue persists, to rule out incompatibility and third-party causes.
Knowing what is troubleshooting and to be able to learn this, gives me the excitement though I already have a little knowledge about these but me as a computer engineering, I prefer to learn the hardware areas rather than the software ones. With this reason, I really looked forward in having this subject.
Looking back when Sir Galao is still our instructor, we were grouped into 16 with having 2 members at most. Each group has been tasked a certain topic (hardware parts of the computer) to report. The reports includes the background of the hardware parts, its history if possible, the problems that occurs to these, and how to deal with these problems. The reports are as follows: microprocessors, motherboard, Random Access Memory (RAM), hard disk drives (HDD), keyboard, mouse, monitor, Network Interface Controllers (NIC), Small Computer System Interface (SCSI), expansion cards, video card, power supply, router, modem, printer, and scanner.
As a presenter, it was a challenge for me. It was a challenge because we need to make the listeners understand what our report is. To contribute on how to deal with the problems that can occur in such parts of the hardware areas of the computer. By the way, the topic we have discussed with my partner, Ms. Karen Bagotchay, is about the monitor. We are pretty sure that everyone in our class knows what a monitor is. So we didn’t included the deeper definitions of the monitor. We just included the types of monitor, its brief history, how to safely use the monitor so that it will be prolonged in using, the problems of which can occur anytime, and how to deal or to troubleshoot these problems. And I can say that we did a good job in delivering what we want them to learn about our topic, the monitor.
Each group relayed good information about their topics. What lacks is the hardware examples of these. Having it said, we need a concrete example of the parts to be able to understand it well and even to have activities in which it is dealing with the topics we have. But still, the idea of having everyone to be involved in such activity, deals a great impact to everyone. I am pretty sure that it is not just about the reporting grades but what we learned with the reporting.
While having these reporting, it is a sad thing to know that Sir Galao will not be able to continue in supervising us with this subject, troubleshooting. That’s when you Sir Perin, came. We are all aware that you are new in BISU and I am sure that it will take some time for adjustment. And as a class mayor, it was hard for me to approach you Sir since we are not that acquainted to each other. It did took quite a while for the class to be in harmony.
For my overall review of my Troubleshooting Experience is that, it was good. I was looking forward with this subject but sadly, it dismayed me. I am not blaming this with who the instructor is. Everyone has its own way on how to teach. You are still new teaching in BISU. You are still learning on how to teach in the most effective way. I know sir that you can overcome the trials of being an instructor. I know that you could do better the next time.
For this essay composed of 1000 words. It was a shocked for me because I am not good at handling with this type of activity. But as per requirement of the subject, I am to compose an essay about my experience in troubleshooting and also included with that are my comments on my testing experience. I really didn’t get that one but what was in my mind was comments on our teaching experience with you Sir as our instructor in this subject. And my essay just reached 1000 words so I have to stop now.*insert smiley here*
Thank you sir for the experience with you having as our instructor. Kudos!
